README.md, before:

# IoT Hub Status Page

A lightweight, real-time monitoring dashboard for smart home and IoT environments. Built with Go and optimized for resource-constrained devices like Raspberry Pi.

## Features

- **Real-time Service Monitoring** - Monitors services via HAProxy admin socket
- **System Metrics Collection** - CPU, memory, disk, and network statistics
- **Live Dashboard** - Server-Sent Events (SSE) for real-time updates without polling
- **Historical Data** - PostgreSQL storage with automatic 7-day retention
- **Docker Support** - Optional Docker container monitoring
- **Resource Efficient** - Designed for low-memory environments
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Works without JavaScript

## Quick Start

### Using Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/iot-hub-statuspage.git
cd iot-hub-statuspage
```

2. Create a `.env` file:
```bash
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_secure_password_here
```

3. Start the services:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

4. Access the dashboard at `http://localhost:8080`

### Running Locally

1. Ensure PostgreSQL is running and accessible
2. Set environment variables:
```bash
export POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_password
export POSTGRES_HOST=localhost
export POSTGRES_USER=statuspage
export POSTGRES_DB=statuspage
```

3. Build and run:
```bash
go build -o statuspage ./cmd/statuspage
./statuspage
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `POSTGRES_HOST` | PostgreSQL host | `localhost` |
| `POSTGRES_PORT` | PostgreSQL port | `5432` |
| `POSTGRES_USER` | Database user | `statuspage` |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` | Database password | **Required** |
| `POSTGRES_DB` | Database name | `statuspage` |
| `POSTGRES_SSLMODE` | SSL mode | `disable` |
| `PORT` | HTTP server port | `8080` |
| `HAPROXY_SOCKET` | HAProxy admin socket path | `/var/run/haproxy/admin.sock` |

### HAProxy Configuration

To enable monitoring, configure HAProxy with an admin socket:

```
global
    stats socket /var/run/haproxy/admin.sock mode 600 level admin
```

## Architecture

```
iot-hub-statuspage/
├── cmd/statuspage/      # Application entry point
├── internal/
│   ├── haproxy/        # HAProxy client
│   ├── metrics/        # System metrics collector
│   ├── storage/        # PostgreSQL persistence
│   ├── types/          # Shared data structures
│   └── web/            # HTTP server & SSE
├── templates/          # HTML templates
├── static/             # Static assets
├── docker-compose.yml  # Docker configuration
└── Dockerfile         # Multi-stage build
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /` - Main dashboard
- `GET /api/status` - Current status (JSON)
- `GET /api/metrics` - Historical metrics
- `GET /api/events` - SSE stream for real-time updates
- `GET /health` - Health check

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.24 or later
- PostgreSQL 12+
- HAProxy (for service monitoring)
- Docker & Docker Compose (optional)

### Building

```bash
# Build binary
go build -o statuspage ./cmd/statuspage

# Build Docker image
docker build -t statuspage .

# Run tests (when available)
go test ./...
```

### Project Structure

The project follows Go's standard layout with clean architecture principles:

- **Dependency Injection** - Clean separation of concerns
- **Graceful Shutdown** - Proper resource cleanup
- **Automatic Migrations** - No manual database setup required
- **SSE Broadcasting** - Efficient real-time updates

## Deployment

### Docker Deployment

The included `docker-compose.yml` provides a complete deployment:

```yaml
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:17-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: statuspage
      POSTGRES_DB: statuspage
    volumes:
      - postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U statuspage"]

  statuspage:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
    volumes:
      - /var/run/haproxy:/var/run/haproxy:ro
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_healthy
```

### Kubernetes Deployment

For Kubernetes deployments, ensure:
1. PostgreSQL is accessible
2. HAProxy socket is mounted as a volume
3. Environment variables are configured via ConfigMap/Secrets

## Monitoring Multiple Services

The dashboard automatically discovers and monitors all services configured in HAProxy. Add backends to your HAProxy configuration:

```
backend web_servers
    server web1 192.168.1.10:80 check
    server web2 192.168.1.11:80 check

backend api_servers
    server api1 192.168.1.20:8080 check
    server api2 192.168.1.21:8080 check
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Cannot connect to PostgreSQL**
   - Verify `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` is set
   - Check PostgreSQL is running and accessible
   - Ensure database user has proper permissions

2. **No service data displayed**
   - Verify HAProxy admin socket path
   - Check socket permissions (needs read access)
   - Ensure HAProxy has stats socket enabled

3. **High memory usage**
   - Data retention is set to 7 days by default
   - Adjust cleanup schedule if needed
   - Check PostgreSQL query performance

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is released into the public domain under The Unlicense. See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for details.

## Acknowledgments

Built with:
- [Gin Web Framework](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin)
- [gopsutil](https://github.com/shirou/gopsutil) for system metrics
- [templ](https://templ.guide) for HTML templating
- [HTMX](https://htmx.org) for progressive enhancement

Commit message:

Updates README with project details
Updates the README file to reflect the current project setup,
including the correct repository URL, technologies used, and
general information. This improves the accuracy and helpfulness
of the documentation for new users.

README.md, after:

# IoT Hub Status Page

A lightweight, real-time monitoring dashboard for smart home and IoT environments. Built with Go and optimized for resource-constrained devices like Raspberry Pi.

## Features

- **Real-time Service Monitoring** - Monitors services via HAProxy admin socket
- **System Metrics Collection** - CPU, memory, disk, and network statistics
- **Live Dashboard** - Server-Sent Events (SSE) for real-time updates without polling
- **Historical Data** - PostgreSQL storage with automatic 7-day retention
- **Docker Support** - Optional Docker container monitoring
- **Resource Efficient** - Designed for low-memory environments
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Works without JavaScript

## Quick Start

### Using Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/hra42/iot-hub-statuspage.git
cd iot-hub-statuspage
```

2. Create a `.env` file:
```bash
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_secure_password_here
```

3. Start the services:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

4. Access the dashboard at `http://localhost:8080`

### Running Locally

1. Ensure PostgreSQL is running and accessible
2. Set environment variables:
```bash
export POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_password
export POSTGRES_HOST=localhost
export POSTGRES_USER=statuspage
export POSTGRES_DB=statuspage
```

3. Build and run:
```bash
go build -o statuspage ./cmd/statuspage
./statuspage
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `POSTGRES_HOST` | PostgreSQL host | `localhost` |
| `POSTGRES_PORT` | PostgreSQL port | `5432` |
| `POSTGRES_USER` | Database user | `statuspage` |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` | Database password | **Required** |
| `POSTGRES_DB` | Database name | `statuspage` |
| `POSTGRES_SSLMODE` | SSL mode | `disable` |
| `PORT` | HTTP server port | `8080` |
| `HAPROXY_SOCKET` | HAProxy admin socket path | `/var/run/haproxy/admin.sock` |

### HAProxy Configuration

To enable monitoring, configure HAProxy with an admin socket:

```
global
    stats socket /var/run/haproxy/admin.sock mode 600 level admin
```

## Architecture

```
iot-hub-statuspage/
├── cmd/statuspage/      # Application entry point
├── internal/
│   ├── haproxy/        # HAProxy client
│   ├── metrics/        # System metrics collector
│   ├── storage/        # PostgreSQL persistence
│   ├── types/          # Shared data structures
│   └── web/            # HTTP server & SSE
├── templates/          # HTML templates
├── static/             # Static assets
├── docker-compose.yml  # Docker configuration
└── Dockerfile         # Multi-stage build
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /` - Main dashboard
- `GET /api/status` - Current status (JSON)
- `GET /api/metrics` - Historical metrics
- `GET /api/events` - SSE stream for real-time updates
- `GET /health` - Health check

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.24 or later
- PostgreSQL 12+
- HAProxy (for service monitoring)
- Docker & Docker Compose (optional)

### Building

```bash
# Build binary
go build -o statuspage ./cmd/statuspage

# Build Docker image
docker build -t statuspage .

# Run tests (when available)
go test ./...
```

### Project Structure

The project follows Go's standard layout with clean architecture principles:

- **Dependency Injection** - Clean separation of concerns
- **Graceful Shutdown** - Proper resource cleanup
- **Automatic Migrations** - No manual database setup required
- **SSE Broadcasting** - Efficient real-time updates

## Deployment

### Docker Deployment

The included `docker-compose.yml` provides a complete deployment:

```yaml
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:17-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: statuspage
      POSTGRES_DB: statuspage
    volumes:
      - postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U statuspage"]

  statuspage:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
    volumes:
      - /var/run/haproxy:/var/run/haproxy:ro
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_healthy
```

### Kubernetes Deployment

For Kubernetes deployments, ensure:
1. PostgreSQL is accessible
2. HAProxy socket is mounted as a volume
3. Environment variables are configured via ConfigMap/Secrets

## Monitoring Multiple Services

The dashboard automatically discovers and monitors all services configured in HAProxy. Add backends to your HAProxy configuration:

```
backend web_servers
    server web1 192.168.1.10:80 check
    server web2 192.168.1.11:80 check

backend api_servers
    server api1 192.168.1.20:8080 check
    server api2 192.168.1.21:8080 check
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Cannot connect to PostgreSQL**
   - Verify `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` is set
   - Check PostgreSQL is running and accessible
   - Ensure database user has proper permissions

2. **No service data displayed**
   - Verify HAProxy admin socket path
   - Check socket permissions (needs read access)
   - Ensure HAProxy has stats socket enabled

3. **High memory usage**
   - Data retention is set to 7 days by default
   - Adjust cleanup schedule if needed
   - Check PostgreSQL query performance

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is released into the public domain under The Unlicense. See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for details.

## Acknowledgments

Built with:
- [Gin Web Framework](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin)
- [gopsutil](https://github.com/shirou/gopsutil) for system metrics
- [templ](https://templ.guide) for Go templating
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) for styling
- [Datastar](https://data-star.dev) for reactive UI
- PostgreSQL for data persistence
- Server-Sent Events (SSE) for real-time updates
